The MyCreds™ Ontario Virtual Skills Passport pilot project for micro-credentials will advance the development of micro-credentials across Ontario and extend the MyCreds platform to enable delivery of Verifiable Credentials using Self Sovereign Identity technologies.  This technology requires issuing of digital data associated with each micro-credential.  Currently, no standards exist for the exchange of micro-credential data so this Micro-Credential Standard Guide will provide guidance to participating institutions and potentially lay the framework for establishment of a micro-credential standard.  We are seeking input from participating institutions on what types of data should be covered by a micro-credential standard.  Input received to date has indicated that institutions would like to leverage the experience they already have using the PESC College Transcript across the country.

The initial draft of Micro-Credential Standard Guide was developed through participation with institutions and will be further refined during this project.  We have used a document format that is similar to other guides that some provinces have used to identify the set of XML tags as a guide into the use of the PESC standards.  The PESC standards are complex and comprehensive so a guide into the consistent use of the XML tags is critical to interoperable exchange.

For the Micro-Credential Standard Guide, we have utilized structures and naming from the PESC College Transcript and the PESC Academic Credential and Experiential Learning standards as well as included other custom tags that may be unique to micro-credentials. The Micro-Credential Standard Guide has been structured as follows:

Transmission – In keeping with other PESC standards, a Transmission block has been included should this become a future standard within PESC.  The document sharing methods within the Digitary platform means that a Transmission block is not used since documents do not require routing information from a source to a destination.  For the purposes of the Virtual Skills Passport project, this block can be ignored but may have some utility for other micro-credential sharing through other hubs or exchange mechanisms.
Student.Person – The XML tags identified in this block represent the typical tags used by institutions for identification of the learner and have been modeled after PESC College Transcript.
Student.LearningRecord.MicrocredentialAward – The XML tags in this block have been modeled after a combination of the PESC College Transcript and the PESC Academic Credential and Experiential Learning standards.  Structures are similar to the AcademicAward block in those standards but also include some unique tags and naming to help further describe the unique requirements of micro-credential awards.
Student.LearningRecord.MicrocredentialOrganization – The XML tags in this block describe the issuing micro-credential organization
Student.LearningRecord.LearningSession – This block has been included if there is a need to identify sessions and courses that make up the micro-credential award.  This section has not yet been fully reviewed and further input and discussion will be required to determine its applicability.
The guide also includes columns which map to the data elements currently being considered for micro-credential standards from Europe and New Zealand to ensure that we are aligned with work that is continuing in those forums as well.
For the purposes of the Virtual Skills Passport project, the rows highlighted in green represent the tags that will be utilized to establish the Verifiable Credential and therefore represent the required and optional tags to be used for this project.  Any additional tags provided by institutions will be attached to the credential as the attached XML to the PDF document but may not be able to be consumed by the MyCreds platform itself.
